I often find that for folks that don't
know a ton about accessibility but
are just getting started, that alt text is
one of the most popular things people hear
about when they think about accessibility.
And we talked about it a little bit
before, but the idea here being that when
a screen reader encounters an image by
default, if you just have image source
food.jpg, it'll read the file's name
to the user, trying to be helpful.
So this is kind of nice sometimes
if you name your images properly.
if you have one that's cutepuppy.jpeg,
then it'll read that out loud.
But it gets really tricky
with websites that allow
users to upload their own images, right?
So if you run a web app like that,
you always have to come up with unique
names so there's not collisions.
So you end up doing things
like hashing these images.
So I pulled some examples from Flicker,
Facebook and
Twitter that can show how
bad things can get, right?
So these are all of course understandable,
that they would give these unique
number and string names to the images.
But just imagine being on a screen
reader and you're tabbing through or
something like that and it says image of
17242890, just starts reading this stuff.
Or even worse like this Facebook one which
is a PHP file with a bunch of stuff at it.
So it's an important
thing to keep in mind.
So adding an alt attribute to these
will cause the screen reader to read
whatever you put in the alt
text instead of the file name.
So here's an example here of an image with
a really long kind of hashed file name,
but we say a puppy in the park.
When the screen reader hits that,
it'll just say a puppy in the park.
It won't read that name.
And then the other thing to keep in mind,
so if you have an image and you made that
image, you're uploading it, add alt
text yourself something descriptive.
Remember, you don't need to say a picture
of because the screen reader will do that.
It'll tell you it's an image.
So just say what's in it.
However, back to the users
uploading stuff,
there's gonna be a lot of times building
web apps where you don't know what's in
the picture when you're coding, right?
So if a user can upload
a picture to Facebook,
Facebook doesn't know what
that picture's going to be.
And so those times,
if you don't know what the picture is,
you have kind of two options.
One, you can put something in, something
generic, user uploaded content or
something like that.
Or two, you can put in an empty alt text.
So, this is different than no alt text.
So alt with an empty string will cause the
screen reader to skip over it not reading
it at all.
This is also really valuable if you
have images that are decorative.
Say you're making a website
with some really nice
rounded corners that are pictures,
PNGs or something like that.
Putting an empty alt on those will make
sure screen readers just totally ignore
them and
know that they're decorative images.
And then the last thing with alt text,
which we talked about
a little bit before is SEO.
So search engine engineers also really
want in on that alt text because search
engines crawl that alt text and
use it to help rank your site for
whatever keywords you're looking for.
And so for years SEO shops have
been stuffing keywords into that.
So again, you'll upload a picture
of a family at the beach.
But your blog post is about
saving money on car insurance.
And so the whole alt text will say,
hey, save money on car insurance
instead of a family at the beach.
And just a little bit helpful for
your SEO but really difficult for
accessible screen reader users.
So I would really encourage folks,
I know Google has devalued the ranking of
this alt text over the years, to still
do the appropriate alternative text.
I also think that there's ways
that you can kinda settle both.
I'm often thinking when I'm writing blogs,
like a marketing blog or whatever,
it's like well I needed to be descriptive,
right?
It has to work for screen reader users.
But I think you can also kind
of move the words around,
just maybe a family at the beach having
just saved money on car insurance.
I don't know, something like that right,
that you can do for everybody.
But I would say the big priority would
be making sure that it reads well for
screen readers.
But this is one area where there might be
a little bit of bumpiness at your company.
Again, looking at the webAIM
recommendation from the last section,
just covering what we've
just covered here.
So there's only one conformance level.
It says images form image buttons and
image maps need alt text.
Images that don't convey content should
have an empty alt text like we covered.
And equivalent alternatives to complex
images are provided in text which we
didn't really cover.
But if you have something that you need,
that's very vital for
the blog post or the page that you're on,
one solution that you can do is you
can have the image, empty alt text.
So that is hidden from screen readers but
visible to sighted users, right?
And then right underneath it, you can
have a DIV with some content in it, but
make it visually hidden.
So that is visible to the screen reader,
but hidden from vision users.
I'm going to pause that one,
make sure it makes sense.
So you can basically do
the opposite approaches.
You can have an image that you
hide from screen readers and
then some text that you hide
from non-screen readers.
Hope that makes sense, and
we can kind of cover and
approach on that in the next section.
Awesome, and then the last thing,
in the same vein of images need
alternative text, audio needs captions.
So remembering that not all
content on the web is visual.
If you have video content,
be sure that you have captions for them.
Some places like YouTube provide
auto captioning, which is awesome.
Other folks, like I run a JavaScript
conference, and we just pay for
a captioning service.
They're really great.
They're affordable.
They listen to the talk in
real time as they're going and
then they just caption them
put that up on a screen.
So there's something to keep in
mind if you're doing events,
if you're doing videos,
if you're doing any kind of audio content.
Some type of transcript,
some type of captioning service.
And this one which we covered already.
This one actually does have
a few different levels,
as we saw on the webAIM site.
But just for level A,
a transcript of content is provided.
You could do synchronized captions for
non-live video.
So if it's not streaming live,
it should have captions already
there like YouTube does.
That's all for that,
that's all for screeners.